# Hom.ie
The Advanced Programming Project for Group D.


Introduction: 

	Dublin Housing Crisis isn’t a thing not heard of. Every year increasing number of students choose Dublin as their location for studies as well as work. This also however, makes the process of searching for an accommodation, extremely hectic and difficult. As a lot of students, working professionals try to find a home by scraping through different mediums such as Daft.ie and other websites like Airbnb or hostels, it’s a process that takes days and with no guarantee of ever being able to get an accommodation. Even when there are responses for an accommodation, there are more than ten parties looking to rent out the same place. This has been a personal experience for us when we landed in Dublin and even before reaching Dublin. It was also difficult to look for places near where we study like it would be for anyone in a new city.
 
	This is where Hom.ie comes in. Hom.ie is a Web Tool that extends help to people searching for their ideal accommodation. It does this by simply plotting all the available options on a map that can be then filtered by date as well as by specific areas around Dublin. Having the map helps in people identify exactly where the property is and they can glance over the plotted markers and click on the one that they find suitable to see more details about the particular posting. Here they can see how much the rent is, how many beds are available as well as the contact of the person if the location and details suite them.

	Another option available on the page is the ability to create your own listing. Plenty of the people who post their listings do it with the help of WhatsApp groups. These groups often have 500+ people with at least 5 to 10 postings being posted about property availability. This information is completely random and often there would be chances one misses out the available property on a text or ignores it as the number of messages is too much. The people posting also don’t necessarily follow a format and this makes retrieval of the information by someone seeking a place really difficult. This is where the ability of creating your own listing comes in. This form has been carefully designed studying the most asked questions and the most required criteria from the hundreds of ads posted. This form consists of some required fields as well as some optional fields that then enhance the result of it appearing on the map page readily available to anyone looking for a home.
